# Iteration 1 Reflection

This iteration has been highly successful as it was an effortless approach to completing the project on time. There were many techniques which allowed us to successfully attack iteration 1 of the slackr product.

In this iteration we initially split the tests up based based on the function purpose. Michael was allocated to complete user_* and message_* functions,  auth_* and standup*_ functions were completed by Kevin, channel_* functions were completed by Yingqi and Coen was allocated to complete the search and admin test functions as well as researching git workflows to help with the development of iteration 2. By defining clear roles for each member of the team, this allowed development to be much faster which was necessary as the deadline was close to the current date. We then engaged in peer programming by reviewing and rewriting code to ensure that the quality was of a higher quality than before. Once these tests were reviewed, another team member had a further check over the functions to provide a second perspective on possible changes that could be made to improve them. Additionally, a deadline to complete the project on Saturday was suggested to ensure that the work would be completed on time, and any additional issues could be fixed on Sunday to prevent rushing the project last minute especially as there were a lot of interconnected functions.

Throughout working on our individual tasks, we consulted one another and openly communicated our progress and the difficulties that arose so we could effectively and efficiently resolve them as a team. Furthermore, we had two standups a week to ensure that we knew the current situation of what we needed to do, what we did and what problems we are currently facing and combined with constant instant messaging on Facebook it enabled us to be efficient in our problem solving.

However, during the process where we started off by individually completing the functions, we realised that a lot of functions were interconnected. Instead of having each person create their own generic functions such as valid_email and valid_password, we should have created a general helper function file to improve debugging and improve consistency in our testing methods rather than having one person use “valid_token” as a valid token while another uses “123456789”. This is going to cause problems as we are going to have to collate these functions in the next iteration. To resolve this issue, we plan to implement the general helper function in the following iteration to improve the clarity and consistency of our code.

Ultimately, this allowed us to push code on time with high quality as the program was constantly monitored with multiple opinions on what the code should do and the possible ways to improve it, especially as the specifications were vague which posed a lot assumptions to be created.
