Iteration 2 was a great success in terms of teamwork and we were able to effectively implement the backend functions including storage of data, respective functions to create a messaging service and a flask server as required.

With consistent work with the goal of a working backend, we engaged actively in constant communication to ensure that we knew what all the team members were doing. In terms of agile practices, messages and online calls occurred frequently in order to rapidly resolve roadblocks that arose in order to increase productivity and efficiency. In addition to the standard methods, we also had official standups on Tuesdays and Fridays to confirm what we were doing and to summarise what we did, how we did it and what we were going to do next. This allowed for better potential workflow and allowed for us to adapt to any changes or problems that appeared. Acceptance criteria was also developed to ensure that functions were completed to fit their purpose.

At the start, we utilised a couple of days to delegate roles and tasks, as well as discuss and finalise our approach towards effectively integrating the functions together, minimising redundant functions and reinforcing the idea of storing data in data structures. Planning our data was greatly beneficial as we were able to confirm what our data model was and ensure that all members were using the same way to store data, clearing up any assumptions we had made individually. This allowed us to quickly power through the inductive individual tasks which were later collated into the main branch. After this stage, we were able to test the program as a collective whole rather than having people assume their functions worked alone as they had intended. To ensure consistency and quality code, we used multiple add-ons such as pylint, coverage and general housekeeping to further improve the overall quality and clarity of our algorithms to achieve a professional standard. Ultimately, after the project was deemed to meet the acceptance criteria requirements and user stories, we moved onto finishing the documentation of the group project on a Google Docs.

Throughout the progress of this iteration, we managed the branches by branching and maintaining a central branch (iteration2) to effectively allow multiple people to be working on the project. Initially, we discussed and organised a central branch, as well as ensured that all members of the team followed the same process in merging branches into the central branch in order to maintain the central branch as the most updated version. Additionally, by constantly merging back into the central branch, it allowed us to minimise merge conflicts significantly.

In addition, we utilised the task board to show what we were doing so that multiple people do not do the same task as to avoid merge conflicts and to ensure that productivity is not wasted on duplicated code. We had a constant production schedule where we planned for everyone to be doing at least one user story at a time. If someone was struggling with a task, they could also move it on to another person without any repercussions. In this iteration, instead of assigning everyone a set of tasks from the beginning and sticking with that until some people were overwhelmed and others had no work left to complete, we worked on a ticket system from the board. Someone would assign themselves to a ticket and work on it until it was complete and then repeat the process. This allowed each of us to be working on a more even amount of the project.

This was also supported through great communication on FaceBook, real life and Discord. Whilst working upon our own individual tasks that we had allocated to each member, we  regularly updated our progress and discussed issues that arose in order to efficiently address them as soon as possible. One of the difficulties that arose was the different approaches that were suggested to store the data including options for classes, lists and dictionaries. Collectively, we reached a mutual agreement where we used both. Classes have the power of encapsulation so that complex data can be more easily accessed and utilised with little knowledge of the inner workings. Lists and dictionaries were used for simplicity as it was cleaner and more efficient to complete.
